=begin pod

=head1 Math::FractionalPart

This I<Raku> module provides several routines to operate with the
fractional parts of a number. The C<*frac> routines also operate on complex numbers.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=begin code :lang<raku>
use Math::FractionalPart :afrac;
say (afrac -3.2); # Output <<0.2>>
say (frac -3.2);  # Output <<-0.2>>
=end code

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Frac functions

There are three different algebraic functions that operate on numbers
and return their fractional parts. They all return the same result
when operating on non-negative numbers, but all three return different
results when operating on negative numbers. See the L<References|#References> 
for more details.  Note that Ref. 2 shows I<frac> operating in the 
I<complex plane> as C<frac(x + i y) = frac(x) + i frac(y)>.

The following table shows the routines that have been implemented in
this module.

=begin table
Name  | Raku formula                | Example           | Notes
---   | ---                         | ---               | ---
frac  | x - floor(x)                | frac(-1.3): 0.7   | 1
afrac | abs(x) - floor(abs(x))      | afrac(-1.3): 0.3  | 2
ofrac | x - floor(abs(x)) * sign(x) | ofrac(-1.3): -0.3 | 3
=end table

=head2 Other functions

Sometimes it is useful to lnow the number of digits in the fractional part
of a number. For example, in creating tests for operations on numbers,
one must often compare results of operations on real numbers when being
able to compare to the same numbers of decimal places is required.

Such a function is C<frac-part-digits>, with alias names of C<decimal-places> and C<ndp>.
The functions return the number of decimal digits to the right of the decimal point
for a real number.

=head1 Notes

1. See Ref. 1, *frac* version 1 (per Graham, Knuth, et alii, 1992).

2. See Ref. 1, *frac* version 2 (per Dainith, 2004); Ref. 3, p. 7. Consider mnemonic 'a' for 'absolute value' or 'astronomical'.

3. See Ref. 1, *frac* version 3 (an *odd function*); Ref. 2: Wolfram's *FractionPart* function. Consider mnemonic 'o' for 'odd function'.

=head1 References

1. Wikipedia article on L<Fractional Part|https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fractional_part>.

2. Wolfram article on L<Fractional Part|https://mathworld.wolfram.com/FractionalPart.html>.

3. I<Celestial Calculations: A Gentle Introduction to Computational Astronomy>, J. L. Lawrence, 2018, MIT Press.

=head1 AUTHOR

Tom Browder <tbrowder@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

E<0x00a9> 2021 Tom Browder

This library is free software; you can redistribute it or modify it under the Artistic License 2.0.

=end pod
